Tools

ssh - secure shell protocol. -i to specify identity or private key for authentication (rsa, dsa or ecdsa)
nmap - checks for open ports and run scripts to enumerate information about what is on each ports as well as server information. -sV for version detection, -sC for script scanning with default scripts, --script= to specify script, -oA basename to store scan results
gobuster - uses a wordlist to check for files and directories in the server structure (brute force)
searchsploit - searches for exploits matching a query on exploit-db
metasploit - runs exploits for you
netcat - tool for reading and writing over a connection using tcp or udp
ghidra - decomposing and reverse engineering applications and binaries
pwntools - a python CTF framework and exploit development library
objdump - disassembles libraries and apps. pipe with get to search through the assembly. -D for disassemble, -t to view symbol table.
when in pwntools drop and ssh key in folder .ssh and in authorized_keys file. this gives to ssh access to the actual server
exiftool - get file information like timestamps
keepass2john - john the ripper module for cracking keepass db
dos2unix - converts dos based scripts to unix
netstat - displays network info like current connections, routing tables, etc. -t for tcp, -u for udp, -l for listening ports
ssh2john - john the ripper script for converting ssh private key to workable format
john - password cracker. --format= for hash format, --wordlist= for wordlist.
chmod - change file mode bits (file perms)
pspy32 - monitor processes running in background
smbclient - ftp-like tool to access smb resources and shares. It is a part of the Samba suite which is the main tool to interact between Linux and Windows systems.
impacket - python library for working with network protocols
smbmap - enumerate samba share drives across an entire domain. -H for host
ldapsearch - tool to search entries in an LDAP (lightweight directory access protocol) directory tree. -h for host, -x for simple authentication, -s for search scope, -b searchbase for search starting point
crackmapexec - tool for pentesting Active Directory networks. first specify AD type (smb, etc) and host, then -u for user(list), -p for password(list), -H for password hash
hashcat - password cracker (can use GPU). --stdout to print to stdout, -m code for hash mode/type, -r for rule file
mp64.bin - maskprocessor which is a part of hashcat. it is a word generator that allowes per-position generation (using ?l or ?u for alpha, ?d for num, ?s for symbols, ?b for hex)
GetADUsers.py (impacket) - script to get AD domain users and their email addresses plus last logon/last password set attributes. Needs host name, -dc-ip for domain controller IP address, -all to get info for all users, -user to specify user
GetNPUsers.py (impacket) - script to to get TGTs for users that don't require Kerberos preauth. -dc-ip for domain controller IP address, -user to specify userlist to try and get TGTs for.
evil-winrm (ruby) - winRM shell for pentesting and hacking. -i for ip address, -u for user, -p for password, -H for NTHash
secretsdump.py (impacket) - script to dump stored password hashes from windows (including from SAM). argument is domain/user:password@ip_or_domain_controller

Other Things
Kerberos Authentication
This is Windows default authorisation technology which uses crypto and third-party ticket auth. The auth process:
1. Client requests authentication ticket (TGT or ticket-granting ticket) with a KRB_AS-REQ.
2. The Key Distribution Center (KDC) verifies credentials and sends back TGT (encrypted using Ticket Granting Service or TGS secret key) and session key (KRB_AS-REP)
3. Client stores TGT and when it expires the local session manage will request another TGT
Now to request a service or resource:
4. Client sends current TGT to TGS with Service Principal Name (SPN) of resource it wants to access
5. KDC verifies TGT of user and that the user has access to service
6. TGS sends valid session key for service, to the client
7. Client forwards session key to service to prove they have access, and service grants access
Usually in the AS-REQ the user credentials must be be required. But if kerberos preauthentication requirement is disabled then the KDC will return the TGT in the AS-REP without the need for any credential. Then the credentials can be obtained by bruteforcing the TGT and this is ASREP-Roasting.